src/pages/post_28/index.md, before:

---
path: "/blogs/k8s-aws-alb"
date: "2022-01-22"
title: "Kubernetes Ingress Controller with AWS ALB Ingress Controller"
author: "Olalekan Taofeek"
timeToRead: "5"
smallTitle: "Kubernetes Ingress Controller with ALB"
description: "Ingress Controller on Kubernetes with AWS ALB"
postNum: "28"
---

<img src="./alb-ingress-controller.png"/>
<br/>
<br/>
<br/>


**Steps to getting AWS ALB Ingress Controller Working in Your EKS Cluster**

Note: Some level of working with kubernetes, terraform, AWS and Helm is required

Stage1: Helm Chart Installation and Helm Chart Values--With Terraform

```
Step1: 
create a terraform template to parametarise the Ingress Helm chart values for improved code structure and future updates

clusterName: ${cluster_name}
region: ${region}
vpcId: ${vpc_id}
ingressClass: alb
securityContext: {}
serviceAccount:
  create: false
  name: aws-load-balancer-controller
resources:
  limits:
    cpu: 100m
    memory: 128Mi
  requests:
    cpu: 100m
    memory: 128Mi
podLabels:
  app.kubernetes.io/instance: aws-load-balancer-controller
  app.kubernetes.io/name: aws-load-balancer-controller


Step2: 
Create a helm release resource with terraform helm release provider and pass the helm values loaded
resource "helm_release" "alb_ingress_controller" {
  name       = "aws-load-balancer-controller"
  chart      = "aws-load-balancer-controller"
  namespace  = "kube-system"
  repository = "https://aws.github.io/eks-charts"
  version    = "1.3.1"
  timeout    = "1500"

  # configuration settings
  values = [local.alb_config]
}

Official docs for more supports:
Terraform helm provider: https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/helm/latest/docs
ALB Ingress Controller Helm chart: https://artifacthub.io/packages/helm/aws/aws-load-balancer-controller

```

Stage2: Ingress Annotations and Apply to the cluster

Create the ingress file and apply it to the cluster

```
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: Ingress
metadata:
  name: experiment-alb
  namespace: default
  annotations:
    kubernetes.io/ingress.class: alb
    alb.ingress.kubernetes.io/load-balancer-name: experiment-alb
    alb.ingress.kubernetes.io/target-type: ip
    alb.ingress.kubernetes.io/scheme: internet-facing
    alb.ingress.kubernetes.io/security-groups: sg-1
    alb.ingress.kubernetes.io/subnets: subnet-1, subnet-2, subnet-3
    alb.ingress.kubernetes.io/load-balancer-attributes: idle_timeout.timeout_seconds=600
  labels:
    app: experiment-alb
spec:
  rules:
  - host: {your dns host}
    http:
      paths:
      - path: /app
        pathType: Prefix
        backend:
          service:
            name: client-app
            port:
              number: 80
```

Stage 3: OIDC Service Account and IAM Policy Permissions for the Ingress Controller

Downlaod the IAM Policy from here: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubernetes-sigs/aws-load-balancer-controller/v2.3.1/docs/install/iam_policy.json

Get the iam assume role module here: https://registry.terraform.io/modules/terraform-aws-modules/iam/aws/latest/submodules/iam-assumable-role-with-oidc

```
Prerequisite:

data "aws_eks_cluster" "cluster" {
  name = module.eks.cluster_id
  depends_on = [
    module.eks
  ]
}

locals {
  oidc_provider_url       = data.aws_eks_cluster.cluster.identity.0.oidc.0.issuer
}

Step1: 
data "tls_certificate" "core_eks" {
  url = local.oidc_provider_url
}

Step2:
resource "aws_iam_openid_connect_provider" "example" {
  client_id_list  = ["sts.amazonaws.com"]
  thumbprint_list = [data.tls_certificate.core_eks.certificates[0].sha1_fingerprint]
  url             = local.oidc_provider_url
}

Step3: Create the IAM Policy

resource "aws_iam_policy" "alb_ingress_controller" {
  name        = "aws-alb-ingress-iam-policy"
  description = "IAM Policy for the AWS Ingress controller"
  policy      = file("alb-ingress-iam-policy.json")
}

Step4: Create Service Account and Annotate the Service Account with the IAM Assume Role
resource "kubernetes_service_account" "ALB_controller" {
  metadata {
    name      = "aws-load-balancer-controller"
    namespace = "kube-system"
    annotations = {
      "eks.amazonaws.com/role-arn" = module.alb_iam_role.iam_role_arn
    }
  }
  depends_on = [module.alb_iam_role]
}

Step 5: Assume Role for the service account created above
module "alb_iam_role" {
  source  = "terraform-aws-modules/iam/aws//modules/iam-assumable-role-with-oidc"
  version = "~> 4.0"

  create_role = true
  role_name   = "alb-ingress-access-${local.cluster_name}"
  provider_url = replace(flatten(concat(data.aws_eks_cluster.cluster[*].identity[*].oidc.0.issuer, [
  ""]))[0], "https://", "")
  role_policy_arns = [
  aws_iam_policy.alb_ingress_controller.arn]
  oidc_fully_qualified_subjects = [
  "system:serviceaccount:kube-system:aws-load-balancer-controller"] #namespace:serviceaccountname
  oidc_fully_qualified_audiences = [
    "sts.amazonaws.com"
  ]
}
Note: The serviceAccount you created here and assume role for is what you pass to the helm chart value which give the Ingress controller tje neccesarry permissions to create ALB target groups, targets, listener rules in your AWS Account
```



Stage 4: External DNS Configurations
Here: We configure an external DNS for a domain hosted in AWS Route53 hosted zone to use for the created ALB Instance and other services hosted on the cluster

Downlaod the YAML Deployment Specification from here: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubernetes-sigs/aws-load-balancer-controller/v2.0.0/docs/examples/external-dns.yaml

official docs: official doc: https://kubernetes-sigs.github.io/aws-load-balancer-controller/v2.1/guide/integrations/external_dns/
Deploy it to the cluster
```
Step1: 
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: external-dns
spec:
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: external-dns
  strategy:
    type: Recreate
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: external-dns
    spec:
      serviceAccountName: external-dns
      containers:
        - name: external-dns
          image: bitnami/external-dns:0.7.1
          args:
            - --source=service
            - --source=ingress
            - --domain-filter={replace with your dns name}
            - --provider=aws
            - --policy=upsert-only
            - --aws-zone-type=public
            - --registry=txt
            - --txt-owner-id={replace with your Route53 Hosted Zone}
          resources:
            limits:
              memory: 128Mi
              cpu: 100m
            requests:
              memory: 128Mi
              cpu: 100m
      securityContext:
        fsGroup: 65534
```

Stage6: Annotate each of the services to route traffic to by the Ingress Object

```
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: {your_name}
  labels:
  annotations:
    alb.ingress.kubernetes.io/target-type: ip
    service.beta.kubernetes.io/aws-load-balancer-scheme: internet-facing
    external-dns.alpha.kubernetes.io/hostname: {custom_name_for_service}.{dns_name}
spec:
  type: LoadBalancer #Loadbalancer service type from v2.3 of the controller
  selector:
    {add_your_app}
  ports:
    - port: 80
      targetPort: 5000
      protocol: TCP
```
official docs for service annotation options: https://kubernetes-sigs.github.io/aws-load-balancer-controller/v2.2/guide/service/annotations/

Commit message:

added external-dns service account steps

src/pages/post_28/index.md, after:

---
path: "/blogs/k8s-aws-alb"
date: "2022-01-22"
title: "Kubernetes Ingress Controller with AWS ALB Ingress Controller"
author: "Olalekan Taofeek"
timeToRead: "5"
smallTitle: "Kubernetes Ingress Controller with ALB"
description: "Ingress Controller on Kubernetes with AWS ALB"
postNum: "28"
---

<img src="./alb-ingress-controller.png"/>
<br/>
<br/>
<br/>


**Steps to getting AWS ALB Ingress Controller Working in Your EKS Cluster**

Note: Some level of working with kubernetes, terraform, AWS and Helm is required

Stage1: Helm Chart Installation and Helm Chart Values--With Terraform

```
Step1: 
create a terraform template to parametarise the Ingress Helm chart values for improved code structure and future updates

clusterName: ${cluster_name}
region: ${region}
vpcId: ${vpc_id}
ingressClass: alb
securityContext: {}
serviceAccount:
  create: false
  name: aws-load-balancer-controller
resources:
  limits:
    cpu: 100m
    memory: 128Mi
  requests:
    cpu: 100m
    memory: 128Mi
podLabels:
  app.kubernetes.io/instance: aws-load-balancer-controller
  app.kubernetes.io/name: aws-load-balancer-controller


Step2: 
Create a helm release resource with terraform helm release provider and pass the helm values loaded
resource "helm_release" "alb_ingress_controller" {
  name       = "aws-load-balancer-controller"
  chart      = "aws-load-balancer-controller"
  namespace  = "kube-system"
  repository = "https://aws.github.io/eks-charts"
  version    = "1.3.1"
  timeout    = "1500"

  # configuration settings
  values = [local.alb_config]
}

Official docs for more supports:
Terraform helm provider: https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/helm/latest/docs
ALB Ingress Controller Helm chart: https://artifacthub.io/packages/helm/aws/aws-load-balancer-controller

```

Stage2: Ingress Annotations and Apply to the cluster

Create the ingress file and apply it to the cluster

```
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: Ingress
metadata:
  name: experiment-alb
  namespace: default
  annotations:
    kubernetes.io/ingress.class: alb
    alb.ingress.kubernetes.io/load-balancer-name: experiment-alb
    alb.ingress.kubernetes.io/target-type: ip
    alb.ingress.kubernetes.io/scheme: internet-facing
    alb.ingress.kubernetes.io/security-groups: sg-1
    alb.ingress.kubernetes.io/subnets: subnet-1, subnet-2, subnet-3
    alb.ingress.kubernetes.io/load-balancer-attributes: idle_timeout.timeout_seconds=600
  labels:
    app: experiment-alb
spec:
  rules:
  - host: {your dns host}
    http:
      paths:
      - path: /app
        pathType: Prefix
        backend:
          service:
            name: client-app
            port:
              number: 80
```

Stage 3: OIDC Service Account and IAM Policy Permissions for the Ingress Controller

Downlaod the IAM Policy from here: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubernetes-sigs/aws-load-balancer-controller/v2.3.1/docs/install/iam_policy.json

Get the iam assume role module here: https://registry.terraform.io/modules/terraform-aws-modules/iam/aws/latest/submodules/iam-assumable-role-with-oidc

```
Prerequisite:

data "aws_eks_cluster" "cluster" {
  name = module.eks.cluster_id
  depends_on = [
    module.eks
  ]
}

locals {
  oidc_provider_url       = data.aws_eks_cluster.cluster.identity.0.oidc.0.issuer
}

Step1: 
data "tls_certificate" "core_eks" {
  url = local.oidc_provider_url
}

Step2:
resource "aws_iam_openid_connect_provider" "example" {
  client_id_list  = ["sts.amazonaws.com"]
  thumbprint_list = [data.tls_certificate.core_eks.certificates[0].sha1_fingerprint]
  url             = local.oidc_provider_url
}

Step3: Create the IAM Policy

resource "aws_iam_policy" "alb_ingress_controller" {
  name        = "aws-alb-ingress-iam-policy"
  description = "IAM Policy for the AWS Ingress controller"
  policy      = file("alb-ingress-iam-policy.json")
}

Step4: Create Service Account and Annotate the Service Account with the IAM Assume Role
resource "kubernetes_service_account" "ALB_controller" {
  metadata {
    name      = "aws-load-balancer-controller"
    namespace = "kube-system"
    annotations = {
      "eks.amazonaws.com/role-arn" = module.alb_iam_role.iam_role_arn
    }
  }
  depends_on = [module.alb_iam_role]
}

Step 5: Assume Role for the service account created above
module "alb_iam_role" {
  source  = "terraform-aws-modules/iam/aws//modules/iam-assumable-role-with-oidc"
  version = "~> 4.0"

  create_role = true
  role_name   = "alb-ingress-access-${local.cluster_name}"
  provider_url = replace(flatten(concat(data.aws_eks_cluster.cluster[*].identity[*].oidc.0.issuer, [
  ""]))[0], "https://", "")
  role_policy_arns = [
  aws_iam_policy.alb_ingress_controller.arn]
  oidc_fully_qualified_subjects = [
  "system:serviceaccount:kube-system:aws-load-balancer-controller"] #namespace:serviceaccountname
  oidc_fully_qualified_audiences = [
    "sts.amazonaws.com"
  ]
}
Note: The serviceAccount you created here and assume role for is what you pass to the helm chart value which give the Ingress controller tje neccesarry permissions to create ALB target groups, targets, listener rules in your AWS Account
```



Stage 4: External DNS Configurations
Here: We configure an external DNS for a domain hosted in AWS Route53 hosted zone to use for the created ALB Instance and other services hosted on the cluster

Downlaod the YAML Deployment Specification from here: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubernetes-sigs/aws-load-balancer-controller/v2.0.0/docs/examples/external-dns.yaml

official docs: official doc: https://kubernetes-sigs.github.io/aws-load-balancer-controller/v2.1/guide/integrations/external_dns/

Deploy it to the cluster

Note: You also need to `assume role` for the external-dns serviceaccount in your namespace you created it in like you did for the `aws-load-balancer-controller` serviceaccount above for it to work, otherwise, there would be some issues
```
Step1: 
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: external-dns
spec:
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: external-dns
  strategy:
    type: Recreate
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: external-dns
    spec:
      serviceAccountName: external-dns
      containers:
        - name: external-dns
          image: bitnami/external-dns:0.7.1
          args:
            - --source=service
            - --source=ingress
            - --domain-filter={replace with your dns name}
            - --provider=aws
            - --policy=upsert-only
            - --aws-zone-type=public
            - --registry=txt
            - --txt-owner-id={replace with your Route53 Hosted Zone}
          resources:
            limits:
              memory: 128Mi
              cpu: 100m
            requests:
              memory: 128Mi
              cpu: 100m
      securityContext:
        fsGroup: 65534
```

Stage6: Annotate each of the services to route traffic to by the Ingress Object

```
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: {your_name}
  labels:
  annotations:
    alb.ingress.kubernetes.io/target-type: ip
    service.beta.kubernetes.io/aws-load-balancer-scheme: internet-facing
    external-dns.alpha.kubernetes.io/hostname: {custom_name_for_service}.{dns_name}
spec:
  type: LoadBalancer #Loadbalancer service type from v2.3 of the controller
  selector:
    {add_your_app}
  ports:
    - port: 80
      targetPort: 5000
      protocol: TCP
```
official docs for service annotation options: https://kubernetes-sigs.github.io/aws-load-balancer-controller/v2.2/guide/service/annotations/
